---
title: "Adaptive hierarchical origami-based metastructures"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-07-26-adaptive
excerpt: 'This paper proposes the concept of a system with versatile shape-morphing capability and its robotic implementation.'
date: 2024-07-26
venue: 'Nature Communications'
#slidesurl: 'https://academicpages.github.io/files/slides3.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-024-50497-5'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2015). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(3).'
---

**Abstract**
Shape-morphing capabilities are crucial for enabling multifunctionality in both biological and artificial systems. Various strategies for shape morphing have been proposed for applications in metamaterials and robotics. However, few of these approaches have achieved the ability to seamlessly transform into a multitude of volumetric shapes post-fabrication using a relatively simple actuation and control mechanism. Taking inspiration from thick origami and hierarchies in nature, we present a hierarchical construction method based on polyhedrons to create an extensive library of compact origami metastructures. We show that a single hierarchical origami structure can autonomously adapt to over 103 versatile architectural configurations, achieved with the utilization of fewer than 3 actuation degrees of freedom and employing simple transition kinematics. We uncover the fundamental principles governing theses shape transformation through theoretical models. Furthermore, we also demonstrate the wide-ranging potential applications of these transformable hierarchical structures. These include their uses as untethered and autonomous robotic transformers capable of various gait-shifting and multidirectional locomotion, as well as rapidly self-deployable and self-reconfigurable architecture, exemplifying its scalability up to the meter scale. Lastly, we introduce the concept of multitask reconfigurable and deployable space robots and habitats, showcasing the adaptability and versatility of these metastructures.